Update the web API client tutorial for recent language and .NET Core changes. (#16609)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/tutorials/console-webapiclient.md

---
title: Create a REST client using .NET Core
description: This tutorial teaches you a number of features in .NET Core and the C# language.

> ms.date: 01/09/2019

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: 01/09/2020
```

Author: Doh!

The first step is to create a new application. Open a command prompt and
create a new directory for your application. Make that the current

> directory. Type the following command in a console window:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
directory. Enter the following command in a console window:
```

for accessibility...

> dependencies into your C# project (\*.csproj) file. For our example, you'll need to add the `System.Runtime.Serialization.Json` package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dependencies into your C# project (\*.csproj) file. For our example, you'll need to add the `System.Runtime.Serialization.Json` package,
```

Next, update the `Main` method to call this method. The
`ProcessRepositories` method returns a Task, and you shouldn't exit the

> program before that task finishes. Therefore, you must change the signature of `Main`. Add the `async` modifier, and change the return type to `Task`. Then, in the body of the method, add a call to `ProcessRepositories`. Make sure that you `await` that method call:

Reviewer: "Make sure that you `await` that method call" -> I'm not sure how well that will translate into other languages while keeping await unlocalized.

the text that is contained in that response. Next, let's convert that JSON response into C#
objects.

> The <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer?displayProperty=nameWithType> class serializes objects to JSOn and deserializes JSON into objects. Start by defining a class to represent the `repo` JSON object returned from the GitHub API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer?displayProperty=nameWithType> class serializes objects to JSON and deserializes JSON into objects. Start by defining a class to represent the `repo` JSON object returned from the GitHub API:
```

This feature makes it easier to create types that work with only a subset of the fields in
the JSON packet.

Now that you've created the type, let's deserialize it. 

Next, you'll use the serializer to convert JSON into C# objects. Replace the call to
<xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient.GetStringAsync(System.String)> in your `ProcessRepositories` method with the following three lines:

```csharp
var streamTask = client.GetStreamAsync("https://api.github.com/orgs/dotnet/repos");
var repositories = await JsonSerializer.DeserializeAsync<List<Repository>>(await streamTask);
return repositories;
```

> You're using a new namespace, so you'll need to add it as well at the top of the file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You're using a new namespace, so you'll need to add it at the top of the file as well:
```

```csharp
using System.Text.Json;
```

Notice that you're now using <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient.GetStreamAsync(System.String)> instead of <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient.GetStringAsync(System.String)>. The serializer
uses a stream instead of a string as its source. Let's explain a couple features of the C#
language that are being used in the second line above. The argument to <xref:System.Text.Json.Serializer.Deserialize%601?displayProperty=nameWithType> is an
`await` expression. Await expressions can appear almost anywhere in your code, even though

> up to now, you've only seen them as part of an assignment statement. The `Deserialize` method is *generic*, which means you must supply type arguments for what kind of objects should be created from the JSON text. In this example, you're deserializing to a `List<Repository>`, which is another generic object, the <xref:System.Collections.Generic.List%601?displayProperty=nameWithType>. The `List<>` class stores a collection of objects. The type argument declares the type of objects stored in the `List<>`. The Json text represents a collection of `repo` objects, so the type argument is a `Repository`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
up to now, you've only seen them as part of an assignment statement. The `Deserialize` method is *generic*, which means you must supply type arguments for what kind of objects should be created from the JSON text. In this example, you're deserializing to a `List<Repository>`, which is another generic object, the <xref:System.Collections.Generic.List%601?displayProperty=nameWithType>. The `List<>` class stores a collection of objects. The type argument declares the type of objects stored in the `List<>`. The Json text represents a collection of repo objects, so the type argument is `Repository`.
```

Reviewer: Changes are in the last sentence only.

Console.WriteLine(repo.Name);
```

> Do a `dotnet run` to make sure you've got the mappings correct. You should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execute `dotnet run` to make sure you've got the mappings correct. You should
```

That format does not follow any of the standard .NET <xref:System.DateTime> formats. Because of that, you'll need to write
a custom conversion method. You also probably don't want the raw string exposed to users of the `Repository`
class. Attributes can help control that as well. First, define a `public` property that will hold the

> string representation of the date time in your `Repository` class and a `LastPush` readonly property that returns a formatted string representing the date returned:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
string representation of the date and time in your `Repository` class and a `LastPush` `readonly` property that returns a formatted string that represents the returned date:
```

```csharp
[JsonPropertyName(Name="pushed_at")]
public string JsonDate { get; set; }

public DateTime LastPush =>
    DateTime.ParseExact(JsonDate, "yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ssZ", CultureInfo.InvariantCulture);
```

> Let's go over the new constructs above. The `LastPush` property is defined using an *expression bodied member* for hte `get` accessor. There is no `set` accessor. Omitting the `set` accessor is how you define a *read-only* property in C#. (Yes,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's go over the new constructs we just defined. The `LastPush` property is defined using an *expression-bodied member* for the `get` accessor. There is no `set` accessor. Omitting the `set` accessor is how you define a *read-only* property in C#. (Yes,
```
